docs/journal.md, before:

#### 04.12.2020

- I have read the game rules from [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mastermind_(board_game))
- Checked some python already made implementaions like [this](https://www.askpython.com/python/examples/create-mastermind-game-in-python) and [this](https://bnbasilio.medium.com/mastermind-a-how-to-in-python-7b80ca9809ab)
- Created a this github repository. 
- Copied my agent/environment code template from my other projects.
- Prepeared the template to start coding accordinglly for the game.
- Well! I have went though my template. I need to figure out:
    - the q-table struture (I may decide to use a neural net. I do not know how to choose right now)
    - code the game rules
    - figure out metrics.
    - print the board
    - add user input functionallty.
- So curentlly the code is not working. Work is in progess...
- [This](https://bnbasilio.medium.com/mastermind-a-how-to-in-python-7b80ca9809ab) article has a good algorithm to find the feedback array check provideFeedback method in the article.

#### 06.12.2020

- Let's continue with the previous list. I want to create the game without ai right now. So I need
    - code the game rules
    - figure out metrics.
    - print the board
- While coding I find a way to host the game for pıblic. I will use [this](https://colab.research.google.com/github/googlecolab/colabtools/blob/master/notebooks/colab-github-demo.ipynb) method. I'll check that later.
- Could not work on this properlly...

#### 07.12.2020

- Will continue now...
- the environment class is almost finished. Curentlly in the status of debugging...
- So the playable version of the game has completed. A user can play right now.
- I will try to publish via colab.
    - That did not work. Because the references to the environment and agent classes are not working properlly in colab.
- So the game has completed. Now it is time to construct the agent class. Curentllt the games ai mode is not working properlly. At least iit is not tested well.
- Agent:
    - I have bumped into unhashable type: 'list' error. since the state in in list format and it is not hashable. 
        - I will try [this](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/7027199/hashing-arrays-in-python) blog to fix. Done...
    - So the action space quite high. it is the digits^peg_count. For the default values it is 4^6=4096. However I can still try to keep a q-table. We'll see the size of it after some iterations.
        - I need to think through the action space. The above sentences seems to be incorrect. Let's assume though default parameters. 4 digits and 6 pegs. So I need to 4 different digits that each digit can be between 1 and 6. So the highest number is 6666. So my q-table's each state action space array should be in the size of 6666 fır this case. I bealive there is better way to store this I will not consider to find a better way now. I wll come back this issue if there is memory or ant other size problems.
        - Ok I am moving pretty fast I am almost there. Now time to time agent guesses 0 because there is 0 in the q_table. The greedy method also considers the actions that is below 1111. Now what? 
            - In thory if I explore all the time I will not bump this error. and it is working. So the greedy method has to be fixed.
    - How to fix greedy method.
        - Ok! actually I did very similar solution on my tic-tac-toe project. I can iniitially assign very negative number for the items that are not in action space. An it is completed.
- We got the first result: 
    - wandb dashboard has been configured. you can check it from [here](https://wandb.ai/hakanonal/mastermind)
    - Unfourtunatelly avarage win is very close to zero. Here is the [run](https://wandb.ai/hakanonal/mastermind/runs/1byxxyuq) Since the number of avaible states and avaible action space very large. policy file is rediculasly large and memory consumption is mindbuggling. in 1000 episodes it is resanablly fast but it is not enough for training. So when we increase the episode number q-table gets very large. The program tries to memorize all posisbilites and simply it is not enugh area to memorize all posisbilies. In this circumtances we need to convert this into NN. 

- Before moving into NN, I want to make this code a playable game for everybody. So I am again trying to host the code on colab so that everybody can run the code without installing any python lib on thier local environment.
    - I have check [this](https://www.programiz.com/python-programming/package) article. There is a __init__.py in every module. What is that?
    - [This](https://packaging.python.org/tutorials/packaging-projects/) article explains the pip packaging procedure fully.
    - Read about [this](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/modules.html#packages)
    - Implemented the [setup.py](https://github.com/hakanonal/mastermind/blob/main/setup.py). Will see the results. Unfourtunatelly I can not make it. I am tired. Will look at it with a fresh mind.

#### 08.12.2020

- This journal location is bugging me. I did not like to write in wiki pages interface. So I am looking places to keep this journal. I am trying a seperate file. Inpired from [here](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/about-readmes)
    - Yes! this is definatelly better.
- Now where were we? Today I want to work on this [card](https://github.com/hakanonal/mastermind/projects/1#card-50796206) create hostable environment for users to play this game. 
    - Curentlly I am intershipping in a software company. I am learning [vue](https://vuejs.org) framwork here. Maybe I can create a vue interface for the game.
    - This reposotory is completed strutured for python environment. Should code it here or create another reposotry.
    - I want to reuse the code that I have contructed here. However the game rues fairlly simple. Maybe I should completelly re-write in vue JS and only call the AI functionallty via API.
        - When check the environment class, the whole environment is ment to be prepeared for AI to be trained. And it is designed as console app. When I check agent class, there is nothing to re-use there because it consists of training advancements where vue framework has nothing to do with that. 
        - On the other hand environment class has:
            - code generation
            - state struture (which is key element of both apps)  
            - isEnded method
            - play method
        - Maybe I can convert these into an  API that initiates a game and updates the stuture. That would be good baseline for the following future [card](https://github.com/hakanonal/mastermind/projects/1#card-50796246)
        - I am considering to create seperate reposotory for the front-end, becasue it will be easier to deploy to live. Or is it?
            - [This](https://blog.logrocket.com/build-deploy-vue-js-app-github-pages/) article is very helpful. It kinf of explains and also provides and automated node.js script file. But how the github pages work? I have very well understood how github pages are working. I hacve even created a test vue default project and deployed to [here](https://hakanonal.github.io/my-first-vue/dist/#/). the [repo](https://github.com/hakanonal/my-first-vue). To sum up:
                - Create the vue.config.js file like [this](https://github.com/hakanonal/my-first-vue/blob/master/vue.config.js)
                - dist folder should not be ignored by git.
                - From github reposotory setting enable github pages for root. 
                - Wait for couple of minutes.-
        - So I will be creating seperate reposottry. Ok frontend is done how about back-end. How should I deploy it?
            - Flask seems pretty easy to use according to [this](https://programminghistorian.org/en/lessons/creating-apis-with-python-and-flask) article. I can create an api.py that accesses the environment. Hmmm that would be evan interesting because by this way there would be only one instance of state and everybody would be able to play the same game. How interesting :)
            - [This](https://towardsdatascience.com/the-right-way-to-build-an-api-with-python-cd08ab285f8f) article is a little bit more sophisticated. It combines the methods via class and declares the class as resource. So the class has to be iin aligened with API. [This](https://gist.github.com/jamescalam/0b309d275999f9df26fa063602753f73) is the full script.
            - Maybe [this](https://palletsprojects.com/p/flask/) official pages should be read. Alright [this](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/1.1.x/quickstart/#a-minimal-application) page is a little bit more straightforward.
    - Ok It is all set let's code. I will create api.py that creates the environment and exposes to the flask API. 
        - I neeeded to re arrange the validateUserInout method so that it can be exposed. It was specific to console app.
        - Well I think I did a very convinient way to expose the game as API. I am exited to use it in vue.
        - However I do not know how to deploy this API to where. I'll do that later better to note it to project [board](https://github.com/hakanonal/mastermind/projects/1).
            

- By the way this packaging system is not completed yet and it is bugging me since vscode continouslly lints errors even though the code is perfectlly working. I want to look this topic today also.
    - So I have chance to look this topic. And I think I have solved it The linting problem was because of vscode settings. And solved by following [this](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1899436/pylint-unable-to-import-error-how-to-set-pythonpath) article.
    - I have also moved the environment and agent clases into ai module.

- Yeah I have also managed to make work the colab hosted notebook work. So By this way peaople does not have to install python environment on their machine to play.

Commit message:

update journal and play notebook

docs/journal.md, after:

#### 04.12.2020

- I have read the game rules from [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mastermind_(board_game))
- Checked some python already made implementaions like [this](https://www.askpython.com/python/examples/create-mastermind-game-in-python) and [this](https://bnbasilio.medium.com/mastermind-a-how-to-in-python-7b80ca9809ab)
- Created a this github repository. 
- Copied my agent/environment code template from my other projects.
- Prepeared the template to start coding accordinglly for the game.
- Well! I have went though my template. I need to figure out:
    - the q-table struture (I may decide to use a neural net. I do not know how to choose right now)
    - code the game rules
    - figure out metrics.
    - print the board
    - add user input functionallty.
- So curentlly the code is not working. Work is in progess...
- [This](https://bnbasilio.medium.com/mastermind-a-how-to-in-python-7b80ca9809ab) article has a good algorithm to find the feedback array check provideFeedback method in the article.

#### 06.12.2020

- Let's continue with the previous list. I want to create the game without ai right now. So I need
    - code the game rules
    - figure out metrics.
    - print the board
- While coding I find a way to host the game for pıblic. I will use [this](https://colab.research.google.com/github/googlecolab/colabtools/blob/master/notebooks/colab-github-demo.ipynb) method. I'll check that later.
- Could not work on this properlly...

#### 07.12.2020

- Will continue now...
- the environment class is almost finished. Curentlly in the status of debugging...
- So the playable version of the game has completed. A user can play right now.
- I will try to publish via colab.
    - That did not work. Because the references to the environment and agent classes are not working properlly in colab.
- So the game has completed. Now it is time to construct the agent class. Curentllt the games ai mode is not working properlly. At least iit is not tested well.
- Agent:
    - I have bumped into unhashable type: 'list' error. since the state in in list format and it is not hashable. 
        - I will try [this](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/7027199/hashing-arrays-in-python) blog to fix. Done...
    - So the action space quite high. it is the digits^peg_count. For the default values it is 4^6=4096. However I can still try to keep a q-table. We'll see the size of it after some iterations.
        - I need to think through the action space. The above sentences seems to be incorrect. Let's assume though default parameters. 4 digits and 6 pegs. So I need to 4 different digits that each digit can be between 1 and 6. So the highest number is 6666. So my q-table's each state action space array should be in the size of 6666 fır this case. I bealive there is better way to store this I will not consider to find a better way now. I wll come back this issue if there is memory or ant other size problems.
        - Ok I am moving pretty fast I am almost there. Now time to time agent guesses 0 because there is 0 in the q_table. The greedy method also considers the actions that is below 1111. Now what? 
            - In thory if I explore all the time I will not bump this error. and it is working. So the greedy method has to be fixed.
    - How to fix greedy method.
        - Ok! actually I did very similar solution on my tic-tac-toe project. I can iniitially assign very negative number for the items that are not in action space. An it is completed.
- We got the first result: 
    - wandb dashboard has been configured. you can check it from [here](https://wandb.ai/hakanonal/mastermind)
    - Unfourtunatelly avarage win is very close to zero. Here is the [run](https://wandb.ai/hakanonal/mastermind/runs/1byxxyuq) Since the number of avaible states and avaible action space very large. policy file is rediculasly large and memory consumption is mindbuggling. in 1000 episodes it is resanablly fast but it is not enough for training. So when we increase the episode number q-table gets very large. The program tries to memorize all posisbilites and simply it is not enugh area to memorize all posisbilies. In this circumtances we need to convert this into NN. 

- Before moving into NN, I want to make this code a playable game for everybody. So I am again trying to host the code on colab so that everybody can run the code without installing any python lib on thier local environment.
    - I have check [this](https://www.programiz.com/python-programming/package) article. There is a __init__.py in every module. What is that?
    - [This](https://packaging.python.org/tutorials/packaging-projects/) article explains the pip packaging procedure fully.
    - Read about [this](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/modules.html#packages)
    - Implemented the [setup.py](https://github.com/hakanonal/mastermind/blob/main/setup.py). Will see the results. Unfourtunatelly I can not make it. I am tired. Will look at it with a fresh mind.

#### 08.12.2020

- This journal location is bugging me. I did not like to write in wiki pages interface. So I am looking places to keep this journal. I am trying a seperate file. Inpired from [here](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/about-readmes)
    - Yes! this is definatelly better.
- Now where were we? Today I want to work on this [card](https://github.com/hakanonal/mastermind/projects/1#card-50796206) create hostable environment for users to play this game. 
    - Curentlly I am intershipping in a software company. I am learning [vue](https://vuejs.org) framwork here. Maybe I can create a vue interface for the game.
    - This reposotory is completed strutured for python environment. Should code it here or create another reposotry.
    - I want to reuse the code that I have contructed here. However the game rues fairlly simple. Maybe I should completelly re-write in vue JS and only call the AI functionallty via API.
        - When check the environment class, the whole environment is ment to be prepeared for AI to be trained. And it is designed as console app. When I check agent class, there is nothing to re-use there because it consists of training advancements where vue framework has nothing to do with that. 
        - On the other hand environment class has:
            - code generation
            - state struture (which is key element of both apps)  
            - isEnded method
            - play method
        - Maybe I can convert these into an  API that initiates a game and updates the stuture. That would be good baseline for the following future [card](https://github.com/hakanonal/mastermind/projects/1#card-50796246)
        - I am considering to create seperate reposotory for the front-end, becasue it will be easier to deploy to live. Or is it?
            - [This](https://blog.logrocket.com/build-deploy-vue-js-app-github-pages/) article is very helpful. It kinf of explains and also provides and automated node.js script file. But how the github pages work? I have very well understood how github pages are working. I hacve even created a test vue default project and deployed to [here](https://hakanonal.github.io/my-first-vue/dist/#/). the [repo](https://github.com/hakanonal/my-first-vue). To sum up:
                - Create the vue.config.js file like [this](https://github.com/hakanonal/my-first-vue/blob/master/vue.config.js)
                - dist folder should not be ignored by git.
                - From github reposotory setting enable github pages for root. 
                - Wait for couple of minutes.-
        - So I will be creating seperate reposottry. Ok frontend is done how about back-end. How should I deploy it?
            - Flask seems pretty easy to use according to [this](https://programminghistorian.org/en/lessons/creating-apis-with-python-and-flask) article. I can create an api.py that accesses the environment. Hmmm that would be evan interesting because by this way there would be only one instance of state and everybody would be able to play the same game. How interesting :)
            - [This](https://towardsdatascience.com/the-right-way-to-build-an-api-with-python-cd08ab285f8f) article is a little bit more sophisticated. It combines the methods via class and declares the class as resource. So the class has to be iin aligened with API. [This](https://gist.github.com/jamescalam/0b309d275999f9df26fa063602753f73) is the full script.
            - Maybe [this](https://palletsprojects.com/p/flask/) official pages should be read. Alright [this](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/1.1.x/quickstart/#a-minimal-application) page is a little bit more straightforward.
    - Ok It is all set let's code. I will create api.py that creates the environment and exposes to the flask API. 
        - I neeeded to re arrange the validateUserInout method so that it can be exposed. It was specific to console app.
        - Well I think I did a very convinient way to expose the game as API. I am exited to use it in vue.
        - However I do not know how to deploy this API to where. I'll do that later better to note it to project [board](https://github.com/hakanonal/mastermind/projects/1).
            

- By the way this packaging system is not completed yet and it is bugging me since vscode continouslly lints errors even though the code is perfectlly working. I want to look this topic today also.
    - So I have chance to look this topic. And I think I have solved it. The problem was about linting and solved changing the vscode settings. [This](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1899436/pylint-unable-to-import-error-how-to-set-pythonpath) article helped.
    - I have also moved the environment and agent clases into ai module.

- Yeah I have also managed to make work the colab hosted notebook work. So By this way peaople does not have to install python environment on their machine to play.
    
    
#### 09.12.2020

- I have relized that my [hosted play notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/github/hakanonal/mastermind/blob/main/play.ipynb) does not explain the board view. It should also explain.what the numbers mean.
